# My first gemtext


## Links to other capsules

### Favorites

* Search
=> gopher://gopherpedia.com/ Gopherpedia, Wikipedia in gopher format
=> http://gopherpedia.com/ Gopherpedia (HTTP)
=> gopher://gopher.floodgap.com/1/v2 Floodgap (Veronica gopher search?)
=> http://gopher.floodgap.com/gopher/gw?gopher/1/v2 Floodgap (HTTP)

* News
=> gemini://gemini-news.com Gemini news
=> gemini://kernelzechs.com/feeds/slashdot.gmi Gemini slashdot


### essential links
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space Project Gemini main site
=> gemini://geminiquickst.art/
=> gemini://gemini-news.com Gemini news
=> gemini://gemi.dev/cgi-bin/chilly.cgi Weather
=> gemini://weather.gluonspace.com:1965/weather?Brussels Weather in Brussels
=> gopher://gopherpedia.com/ Gopherpedia
=> gemini://geminispace.info/ Gemini Space Info Search
=> gemini://rawtext.club/~sloum/spacewalk.gmi Spacewalk
=> gemini://warmedal.se/~antenna/ Antenna


### hosting
=> gemini://pollux.casa They host capsules
=> gemini://dave.pollux.casa me :-D
=> gemini://koyu.space/info.gmi


### To Explore Links from a slashdot post:
=> gemini://kernelzechs.com kernelzechs capsule, has some websites in gemini feed (eg slashdot)
=> gemini://gemini.lottalinuxlinks.com Lottalinux links
=> gemini://gempaper.strangled.net/mirrorlist/
=> gemini://station.martinrue.com/ Station, which is a place to post quick thoughts.
=> gemini://warmedal.se/~antenna/ Antenna, an aggregator of different capsules.
=> gemini://midnight.pub/ Midnight pub, a place to write gempages and read gempages from others.
=> gemini://rawtext.club/~sloum/spacewalk.gmi Spacewalk. Another aggregator.
=> gemini://gemi.dev/cgi-bin/chilly.cgi Gemini weather. Still a bit beta, but gets the weather for "roughly" where your IP address puts you.
=> gemini://gemini-news.com/ Gemini news. It's basically a regular web crawler that copy/paste news into a gempage. Links send out to the regular web.
=> gopher://gopherpedia.com/ Gopherpedia. Not exactly Gemini, but most if not all Gemini clients should be able to fall back to Gopher if needed. This is just a front end for Wikipedia.
=> gemini://tilde.team/~khuxkm/leo/ LEO (Low Earth Orbit). A pretty large orbit (aka web ring) on Gemini space. So you'll find a lot of random gemlogs and capsules there.
=> gemini://geminispace.info/ Gemini Space Info. A search engine for Gemini space, but the old school kind that is for those who've registered to have their capsules indexed. So it's not like the web crawlers some are used to.


And finally the sites to the specs. 
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/ For the Gemini protocol. 
=> gemini://transjovian.org/ For the Titan protocol (upload oriented protocol for Gemini space). 
=> gemini://spartan.mozz.us/ For the Spartan protocol which is mostly Gemini minus the need for TLS. TLS is required for every Gemini connection. 
And also check out => gemini://mozz.us itself. They have all kinds of "interesting" play things there including example CGI programs to run on various Gemini servers.

## useful projects
=> https://gitlab.com/ucxdvd/gemini Mine
=> https://git.sr.ht/~sircmpwn/kineto  Kineto is a http to gemini proxy, useful if your device has no gemini client or your local network blocks :1965
=> https://github.com/mbrubeck/agate Host your own capsule

## My own scribbles
### Spice combos
=> spices/index.gmi
### Life hacks
=> fasting/index.gmi

## decent clients
* amfora for cli (go binary)
* lagrange for gui (x, maybe windows too)
* deedum for android

