gemini://station.martinrue.com/ Station, which is a place to post quick thoughts.

gemini://warmedal.se/~antenna/ Antenna, an aggregator of different capsules.

gemini://midnight.pub/ Midnight pub, a place to write gempages and read gempages from others.

gemini://rawtext.club/~sloum/spacewalk.gmi Spacewalk. Another aggregator.

gemini://gemi.dev/cgi-bin/chilly.cgi Gemini weather. Still a bit beta, but gets the weather for "roughly" where your IP address puts you.

gemini://gemini-news.com/ Gemini news. It's basically a regular web crawler that copy/paste news into a gempage. Links send out to the regular web.

gopher://gopherpedia.com/ Gopherpedia. Not exactly Gemini, but most if not all Gemini clients should be able to fall back to Gopher if needed. This is just a front end for Wikipedia.

gemini://tilde.team/~khuxkm/leo/ LEO (Low Earth Orbit). A pretty large orbit (aka web ring) on Gemini space. So you'll find a lot of random gemlogs and capsules there.

gemini://geminispace.info/ Gemini Space Info. A search engine for Gemini space, but the old school kind that is for those who've registered to have their capsules indexed. So it's not like the web crawlers some are used to.

And finally the sites to the specs. gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/ For the Gemini protocol. gemini://transjovian.org/ For the Titan protocol (upload oriented protocol for Gemini space). gemini://spartan.mozz.us/ For the Spartan protocol which is mostly Gemini minus the need for TLS. TLS is required for every Gemini connection. And also check out gemini://mozz.us itself. They have all kinds of "interesting" play things there including example CGI programs to run on various Gemini servers.

